[sirens]
We're headed to
a traffic complaint
right now that's believed to be
a possible stolen school bus.
[suspenseful music]
The bus is refusing to stop,
driving with no lights on.
And it looks to be like
he's a young white male,
possibly 16 years old.
And myself and other deputies,
we're in pursuit of him.
[sirens]
K9 2 to all units, if he runs
on foot, do not pursue him.
He's driving real
erratic and turning
his wheel left and
right on purpose,
and he's all over the road.
I can't see any
kids on the bus.
It looks like it's just him.
[sirens]
Clear.
Watch out.
Uh-oh.
[crash]
Well, here we go.
[police radio chatter]
[inaudible] Come on!
Come on!
Let me see your [muted] hands!
Let me see your hands now!
Let me see your hands!
[interposing voices]
Shut up!
[barking]
The bus door was locked,
and the other deputies grabbed
the driver of the vehicle
from the driver-side
window and were able to put him
in handcuffs and pull him out.
[inaudible] flashlight.
All right, since you can't--
he can't answer my questions,
so I have to take him.
It appeared that the
driver of the vehicle
was either trying to flip it
or trying to run one of us
off the road.
He's going to be
charged with evading.
We're getting one of
the local agencies
to check out if the
bus is in fact stolen.
And also he'll be charged
with multiple counts
of aggravated assault
on public servants.
I've never seen
anything like it.
It was one to put
down for the books
Got a GMC SUV right here.
Driver doesn't have
his seat belt on.
I'm gonna get him to
stop and talk to him.
Doesn't look too happy that
we got him pulled over.
[inaudible] that stop sign.
It's got to be on while
you're riding down the road, OK?
I'm sorry.
835-- 835 [muted].
[suspenseful music]
They're running.
[sirens]
All right, so we tried to
get this guy stopped and IDed,
but he took off from us.
[police radio chatter]
We are taking a ride
on 33rd Avenue north.
So this individual's showing
outstanding felony warrants
regarding to failure
to appear on possession
of controlled substance.
He has no bond, which
explains why he ran.
Hey, check that over
there to the left.
Turning right on 31.
Going Southbound.
[police radio chatter]
Hands!
Look out!
Hey.
All right, we're still 31 South.
Looks like he lost a left tire.
He's going left right
here on 30th Way.
Guys, left, right, then left.
[sirens]
[panting]
Where'd he go?
Straight ahead.
Huh?
[panting]
Straight ahead!
Ow!
Here.
That right there.
[inaudible]
Where?
[sirens]
Hey, y'all stay in this area.
Yeah, that's his house.
[dramatic music]
This is Jefferson
County Sheriff's Office.
We are not going anywhere.
Your best bet is to
surrender and bring yourself
outside to end it peacefully.
- Show me your hands.
- Hands!
Hands!
- Show me your hands!
- Hands!
Drop down.
- Show me your hands.
Just drop down.
[interposing voices]
- All right.
- OK.
All right, hey.
Just drop down.
I'm putting my weapon up.
Just come down to me.
We promise you.
Come on down.
- Come on.
- Ain't nobody gonna do nothing.
I'm coming.
Come on.
Hey, we got to see your hands at
all times, so work to the edge.
OK.
And come down to this ladder.
Help.
[inaudible]
Come on.
Grab my shoulder.
- Here hands down.
Grab my shoulder
[inaudible] my hands up.
Don't-- don't spit on me.
Come on.
OK.
- Come on.
- I need some water.
That's fine.
Give me another leg.
You're spitting on me, dude.
I'm sorry.
I'm-- just sweat.
You're spitting on me.
Control that.
OK.
Here, step down to the ladder.
OK--
Step down to the ladder.
We got you, buddy.
Come on.
You're two feet away.
All right.
Put your hands
behind your back.
See how easy that was?
[coughing] So just
over this hill right
here is where my vehicle is.
That's where I gave chase.
I took a couple stumble--
tumbles and lost sight of him.
He actually made it to his
address, got inside the attic.
The license plate on the vehicle
is attached to this address.
His ID is attached
to this address.
The dog actually
led to this address
as well, where deputies
were already waiting.
He surrendered, and he
was taken into custody
with no further incident.
So all in all, good.
Nobody's hurt.
There's a few vehicles that are
damaged, but he's in custody.
He's going to face his warrants
and other multiple charges.
One of our officers--
[barking]
--made a traffic stop.
[non-english dog command].
I guess-- it sounds like he was
already talking to the driver
and got his information.
And while the officer
was back at his car,
the driver took off.
[sirens]
[non-english dog command].
Good boy.
I'm coming around.
What's the vehicle description?
[suspenseful music]
[inaudible] there's a guy
in a minivan chasing this guy.
Tell him to get out of the way.
[barking]
K9's lead car.
Taking a U-turn back
northbound [inaudible]..
[police radio chatter]
We hope that he gives
up easily, but we'll see.
[police radio chatter]
Guys, he's reaching
underneath the seat.
Eastbound 300 and [inaudible].
Speeds have lightened up here.
[police radio chatter]
He's reaching down again.
Still reaching under his seat.
We're a pretty good
distance outside of Lawrence.
Actually, we're a
county out right now.
It's not like you
get out of Lawrence
and you're on home base.
Once you cross out
of Lawrence, we
will continue to
chase you as long
as the supervisors allow it.
OK.
How far is that?
All right, he just
crashed out onto the field.
Crash out into a field.
At the roundabout.
Get on the round right now!
On the ground!
On the ground right now!
On your face right now!
On your face!
Get on your face!
[barking]
On your face!
Arms out!
Arms out now!
[police radio chatter]
[barking]
Put your arms out right now!
Arms out!
Watch the car, Thomas,
just in case, bud.
Good boy, bubba.
Good boy.
Watch him.
[inaudible]
Good boy.
Woo-hoo!
[police radio chatter]
Subject in custody.
100 and [inaudible].
Yeah, you're sorry now.
What happened?
Yeah, you know how many
people you could have killed?
It was just--
Over a stupid warrant, you could
have killed multiple people.
You got anything on you?
Anything in the car?
No--
What are you throwing
under the seat?
What were your
reaching for, man?
What's in the car?
What was his warrants for?
Possession of cocaine.
OK.
So basically he had some
felony warrants, and--
which Officer Wise
and Officer Anderson,
when they pulled him over,
they went back to run him.
And he took off.
So--
You might look underneath
there again on that side.
I can't tell.
Hey, we're not worried
about your phone and wallet
right now, OK?
You know how many lives
you put in danger?
So many!
That was dumb.
[sirens]
[suspenseful]
So what we're
going to is a person
that had their car
stolen is actually
following their stolen car.
They're going to be
coming up to us right now.
It's going to be a
gray Dodge Durango.
OK, that's it right there.
Continuing about
45 miles an hour,
no traffic, coming
up to North First.
Coming up to North
First, no traffic, 45.
Right on North
First, left on Rodeo.
Right on Curtis.
He blew the light.
Still about 45,
50 miles an hour.
I'm trying to catch up.
Coming up to Linwood, about 66.
Made a right turn on
Linwood, blew the stop sign.
And he crashed.
[police radio chatter]
I got the driver running
toward the school.
Lock down the school.
Coming driver
running to the school.
Lock down the school.
[suspenseful music]
Driver's wearing
a blue sweatshirt!
Going over the fence!
I got a passenger,
black sweatshirt!
[inaudible] up to the school!
They're going behind the school!
He's going on Tampico!
Did somebody run
inside your house?
I'm with you.
Let's go.
Salinas Police!
Police!
Let me see your hands!
Ready?
Yeah.
Salinas PD!
Back door's open?
Yeah.
Salinas Police Department.
Come out with your hands up.
Let me see your hands!
Put your hands! up!
[interposing voices]
Get on the ground!
Let him come out.
- Crawl out!
- We got him in the back.
Crawl out!
Hold on.
Crawl out.
- I got a Taser.
- Get on the ground.
I got him.
I got a Taser.
Do not move.
Hands out.
- Hands out.
- Get your hands out.
- Let me see your hands!
- I got him.
Yeah.
I got him, Abel.
Nice and easy.
He's not going anywhere.
Do not move.
You understand?
Put your hands
behind your back.
Put your hands behind
your back, now.
Put that hand
behind your back.
Yeah, see that?
It's easy, isn't it?
Get up.
Stand up.
[inaudible],, we're
code four over here.
- Stand up.
- Donnie, are you code four over
there?
No.
Take him out.
Copy.
So he's in custody.
The passenger is in custody.
Nobody's hurt.
So now we're just going
to figure all this out.
OK, did he tell you anything?
Nothing.
He just told me, can I
have a glass of water?
And I goes, who are you?
What do you want?
Why are you inside of my house?
So obviously they bottomed
out and then ended up here.
And then the passenger
in the black sweatshirt
was going that way, and then
the driver went that way.
So we went and stayed right
there with the driver,
and Officer Hart stayed
with the passenger.
Hi, I'm the vehicle owner.
My name's Brent.
Hey, Brent.
I'm Jacky.
I have a copy of my
police report here.
- They got it good, huh?
- Yeah, they did.
I'm sorry.
But that's what we got
insurance for, though.
That's true.
So the driver's going to be
arrested for a stolen vehicle,
evading police, obstructing
us by hiding from us
and going in the house, and
also burglary because he entered
her house without permission.
The passenger, he's a juvenile.
There's alcohol in the car, so
we're taking him to the station
for further investigation.